welcome to this cross match technologies
training presentation on capturing
rolled and slapped or flat fingerprint
images utilizing the Guardian Live Scan
capture device in this presentation we
will cover the following training
objectives an overview of the Guardian
live scan device the ergonomic staging
of the live scan device the proper hand
grasp and placement to capture the
following flat or slapped fingerprint
images or rolled nail to nail
fingerprint images overview of the
Guardian device the Guardian is one of
cross match technologies premier live
scan fingerprint capture devices it
features a very durable lightweight and
ergonomic design which includes
intuitive LEDs and icons to assist in
the capture process helpful guide
markers to assist in the proper
placement of the fingers for flat or
roll capture
a magnetically adhering dust cover to
protect the scanners flattened and
silicon membrane when the device is not
in use the Guardian is only five and a
half by five and a half inches wide and
four inches in height ergonomic staging
of the live scan device
construction of the proper staging of
any live scan device is a step that
should not be neglected the FBI and
other fingerprint capture experts
recommend that the capture service of
the device should be located 44 to 46
inches above the floor the fact that
most desks are tables are approximately
29 to 30 inches in height and the
Guardian is only four inches in height
indicates the need for a platform
between 10 to 12 inches to be placed
between the Guardian and the desk or
table placing the device too high or low
places undue stress on the wrist arm and
shoulder of the person being printed
this often leads to poor image quality
of the prints due to smudging propping
for premature lifting of the finger
being captured proper hand grasp and
placement to capture capturing four
fingers slap or flat images when
capturing forefinger flat or slap images
start by taking an overhand grasp of the
subjects hand just behind or over the
knuckles of the hand guide the fingers
at about a 15 degree angle onto the top
of the capture surface in sure to
include from the tip to the first crease
of each finger without pressing too hard
or propping the top or sides of the
fingers
you can use your other hand or finger
tips to apply slight pressure to the top
of the subjects hand until you hear the
capture beat from the Guardian scanner
capturing rolled fingerprint images
let's closely observe a couple of
animated demonstration of hand grass
technique this illustration demonstrates
the proper method for grasping the
subjects hand prior to the roll by
reaching well over the subjects hand
would be able to comfortably turn the
wrist while maintaining a slight even
pressure on the tip of the finger you
are rolling using the index of middle
fingers of your other hand to assure a
good even roll you can also use the ink
on paper grasp at the tip of the finger
to assure a smooth even roll capturing
rolled fingerprint images using the nail
to nail method notice how the roller is
able to grasp the hand isolate the
finger and place it on its side of the
capture surface then smoothly roll from
nail to nail the same procedure is used
for rolling thumbs as it is for fingers
but it is recommended that you roll from
the inside to the outside of the thumb
nail the nail
capturing rolled fingerprint images
using the nail to nail rock-and-roll
method to avoid uneven pressure lines
across your captured image notice in
this example that the finger is first
placed down flat rolled to the side then
from nail to nail this method is called
the rock and roll nail to nail method
and will help you to maintain an even
pressure throughout the rolling
procedure in review in this video we
have demonstrated the following how to
properly stage the live scan device how
to grasp the subjects hand for placement
on the platon how to properly place the
hand on the blatant or forefinger flat
captures how to isolate and place
fingers on the blatant prior to rolling
two methods for rolling fingers the nail
to nail and the rock and roll nail today
one further point we would recommend
prior to rolling is instruct the subject
to completely relinquish control of
their hand do not attempt to assist
during the capture procedure never press
down on the plate enduring rolls or
flats
this concludes the Guardian fingerprint
capture training video
for additional training offerings you
can visit our website at ww.com forward
slash training HTML call our offices at
56 1622 1650 and ask for training
cross-match offers product training on
customer site at our training center
located in Palm Beach Gardens Florida or
via the web